Hello English learners. Welcome back to EnglishPod. My name is Marco.
And I'm Erica. And today we're bringing you another lesson on our sport series.
We're talking about baseball today.
Baseball the American National Pass Time. Is it? Yes it is. Okay. So we're going to be looking at
this interesting sport that is played mainly in the Caribbean and well it's actually very popular
in the United States and Japan. That's right. Korea. Yeah. So we're not only going to learn
a bunch of baseball language, but we're also going to see how baseball has a big influence on
English in general. That's right. So we're going to learn a lot of great things today. So why don't
we start and listen to our dialogue.
Hello baseball fans and welcome back to today's game. My name is Rick Fields.
And of course I am here once again with a man that seals the deal Bob Copeland.
It's a beautiful day to see two world-class teams face each other and fight for their
right to be called champions. Well the National Anthem has just been sung and the
Empire has started the game. It's time to play ball. Roger Vargas is up at bat.
Picture winds up and strike one very nice curve ball by the pitcher. The catcher gives him the
sign. He winds up and Vargas gets a line drive. The players are scrambling to get the ball. Vargas
gets to first base and he's still doing it. The outfielder throws it to second. Vargas slides.
He's safe. Great play. We have a runner on third and a bit bat is Brian O'Cummy.
There's the pitch. He hits it. It's going. Going. That ball is gone.
Home run by O'Cummy. That puts this team ahead by two as we are at the bottom of the
fifth inning here at Richie Stadium.
All right. Well a pretty exciting game there at Richie Stadium. Exactly. And we have some
interesting players. Roger Vargas and Brian O'Cummy. All right. So well we saw some great words.
And well it's time for us to take a look at them now in language takeaway.
Language takeaway. Okay we're going to look at some common sports and baseball words here.
Now the first phrase will hear this almost at any sort of international sports event, right?
Exactly. And it's the national anthem. National anthem. National anthem. So this is a song, right?
Exactly. It's the song that you sing about your country. And many people confuse it, right?
Yeah. A lot of people might say national him. Okay him. Because in some languages it might be like a
him, like literally translating. Yeah. But in English it's called the national anthem. The national anthem.
All right. So what about our next word? Well we were talking about the picture
picture. PITCHER. The picture. Okay and now this is one of the players on the baseball team
and his job is to throw the ball to throw the ball really fast so that the guy can hit it with the bat.
Okay. So that's the picture. Now the interesting thing is that the baseball commentator said
the picture winds up winds up to wind up to wind up. Okay. Well let me paint you a picture.
Okay. So imagine a clock and you're turning, turning and turning the clock to wind up to get it
ready to go to make it work. Exactly. So imagine the picture doing the same sort of thing,
bringing his arm back behind him, getting ready to throw the ball. Okay. So that is to wind up.
Very good. So you can use this word not only in baseball but for other things that require
you to do the section. Right to turn something and get it, get it ready to have lots of power. Like some
toy or maybe like a music box? Okay. Wind up. What about our next phrase? Well Roger Vargas hit a line drive.
Line drive. Line drive. Okay. So what is a line drive? What's a term from baseball? And when you hit a line
drive, you hit the ball sort of low on towards the ground and it travels along the outside of the
field. Right. So the ball basically travels along the foul line. That white line. The white line.
Yeah. Exactly. Very good. So that's a line drive. And so the players on the field were scrambling to
get the ball scrambling. Now we know scrambled eggs from one of our lessons. Yes. But the
verb to scramble means to move quickly in a disorganized way to do something. Okay. So the players
are moving very fast trying to get the ball but they're not doing it very well. Right. And you can
use this in other ways, right? Not just in baseball. Right. For example, we can say the people are
scrambling to buy their tickets for the concert. Yeah. Or I'm going on vacation tomorrow and I'm
scrambling to get everything ready. Exactly. It's a very good term that you can use also in your
life. Exactly. All right. And what about our last word for today on language takeaway? Well,
they were in the fifth inning of the game. Okay. So inning inning inning. All right. This is another
baseball term. And it just means the period of play. Okay. So we learn for example that in soccer,
you have two halves. Or in hockey, you have three periods. All right. And in baseball, you have nine
innings. Okay. Great. So some interesting sports and baseball vocabulary. Now, I think it will
help us to hear this again slower. So let's listen to the dialogue.
Hello, baseball fans. And welcome back to today's game. My name is Rick Fields. And of course,
I am here once again with the man that seals the deal Bob Copeland. It's a beautiful day to see
two world class teams face each other and fight for their right to be called champions. Well,
the national anthem has just been sung. And the Empire has started the game. It's time to play ball.
Roger Vargas is up at bat. The pitcher winds up and strike one. A very nice curve ball by the
pitcher. The catcher gives him the sign. He winds up. And Vargas gets a line drive.
The players are scrambling to get the ball. Vargas gets to first base and he's still going.
The outfielder throws it to second. Vargas slides. He's safe. Great play. We have a runner on third.
And up at bat is Brian O'Kami. There's the pitch. He hits it. It's going. Going. That ball is gone.
Home run by O'Kami. That puts this team ahead by two as we are at the bottom of the
fifth inning here at Richie Stadium.
All right. So as we said, there are a lot of English terms that come from baseball,
but we use them in business context or in your daily life, right? Yeah. Why don't we look at those
now and fluency builder? Fluency builder. All right. So the first phrase that we have is
up to bat. Up to bat. Up to bat. So literally in this dialogue, it means the guy is standing on
home plate ready to hit the ball, right? He has the bat and he's ready to hit it. But what about
in other contexts? So for example, you can be at a meeting and maybe it's your turn to talk.
So you're up to bat. So the exactly your boss will say, okay, Erica, you're up to bat. Okay. So it
means sort of like it's your turn. It's your turn. Yeah. Very good. All right. So that's another term
that is using baseball, but very commonly used in other circumstances. So we also saw in the dialogue
that Roger Vegas, he hit the ball, but he missed and that was strike one. Right. Strike one.
So in baseball, you have three strikes. Three tries. Three tries before you're out. Yes. And so now
the same thing happens in daily life. So if someone says, that was strike one. It means you made the
first mistake. Yes. And if you make two more, you will be fired for example. Yeah. Or maybe your parents
will say, okay, that wasn't nice. Strike one. And then two more times and you'll have a timeout.
Oh, you'll be grounded. Yes. Okay. So that's also called a strike. And the picture through a
curve ball curve ball. So okay, pretty clear. A curve ball is when you throw the ball and it sort of
goes in a curve. It doesn't go straight. Right. Exactly. But how can this be used outside of baseball?
So you can say, oh, my boss threw me a curve ball today. So he gave you an unexpected problem.
Uh-huh. Or something that was difficult to handle. Okay. Um, this one is pretty interesting. I'd
like to hear a few more examples. Example one. My boss threw me a curve ball today. So I have to
stay and work late. Example two. It was a huge curve ball when she asked me how many kids I
wanted to have. Oh, my, I'm supposed to know. All right. So that's basically a curve ball. You can say
an unexpected problem in a situation. That's right. And our last phrase and we'll probably one
that's you already know home run home run a home run from baseball. We know that that's when you
hit the ball really far and you hit it outside of the of the playing area outside the park. Yes.
And now if you use it in a business context or in your daily life, it means something similar.
Why don't we take a listen to the examples and see if we can figure it out? Example one.
Great job on that sales presentation. You really hit a home run. Example two.
Our sales team hit a home run this month by doubling our revenue. Okay. So basically a home run is a
success. A victory. A victory. Yeah. Something a big accomplishment. That's right. So we've seen a
lot of these great phrases and as you can see, a lot of them from baseball are using your daily
life and there are many, many more. Okay. Well, I don't we hear them again in the baseball context
and we'll listen to the dialogue one more time.
Hello baseball fans and welcome back to today's game. My name is Rick Fields and of course I am here
once again with a man that seals the deal Bob Copeland. It's a beautiful day to see two world
class teams face each other and fight for their right to be called champions. Well, the national
anthem has just been sung and the Empire has started the game. It's time to play ball. Roger Vargas
is up at bat. Picture winds up and strike one very nice curve ball by the pitcher. The catcher
gives him the sign. He winds up and Vargas gets a line drive. The players are scrambling to get
the ball. Vargas gets to first base and he's still doing it. The outfielder throws it to second.
Vargas slides. He's safe. Great play. We have a runner on third and a bit bat is Brian O'Commie.
There's the pitch. He hits it. It's going going. That ball is gone. Home run by O'Commie. That
puts this team ahead by two as we are at the bottom of the fifth inning here at the
Richie Stadium. All right. So an interesting dialogue, a very interesting sport.
Well, personally I never played this as a child. I mean either really. I don't really like it too much
but it is kind of fun to go to a game and especially in the United States have those hot dogs
in all that. Okay. Yep. Well, a cultural event. A really important piece of American culture.
Exactly. So well, we encourage you to come to our website EnglishPod.com. Tell us what you think
and also of course if you have questions or doubts be sure to tell us. If you have any other sort of
baseball related phrases, let us know about them on the website. Okay. So we'll see you guys there.
Thanks for downloading and until next time. Bye. Bye.